# te_kowhai_maori_dictionary
Creating a Te Reo Māori Dictionary using PHP CRUD and SQL Databases

PURPOSE:
The purpose of the website, which was created through the implementation of a relational database, is to allow teachers in New Zealand to collaboratively contribute to an online Te Reo dictionary. It will showcase Te Reo to the students, but the students are unable to edit it. Through the website, students will be able to learn new words in Te Reo Māori. 

--------------------------------------DOCCUMENTATION, DISCUSSION AND IMPLICATIONS-----------------------------------------------------------
PURPOSE DISCUSSION: 
As we know, the purpose of the website is to allow teachers in New Zealand to collaboratively contribute to an online Te Reo dictionary. It will showcase Te Reo to the students but the students are unable to edit it. Through the website, students will be able to learn new words in Te Reo Maori. I think that the Te Kowhai dictionary has met its purpose as the dictionary is able to add, delete and edit words into a table allowing users (in this case, teachers) to contribute to the dictionary. The dictionary also displays the table of Maori words in an organised fashion (pagination) and students are able to search through the list to find the Te Reo words that they need. Teachers are also able to view their profiles and log in and out of the dictionary as they please. To make this beneficial for teachers, words can be divided into categories and year levels which in turn help students identify where they are at in their learning. The large range of year levels and categories also provide more learning opportunities for the students allowing them to fully engage with the website. Therefore, Te Kowhai Dictionary is a useful and fun tool that holds many advantages when helping students learn Te Reo Maori or build on their skills. It is beneficial for young learners who wish to expand their knowledge, delve deeper into the Maori language and learn more about the culture of the people. 

END-USER CONSIDERATIONS:
The Te Kowhai Dictionary is primarily aimed towards young students and teachers who want to learn or further learn Te Reo Maori. Keeping this in mind, during the design stages of the website, this was kept in mind to ensure the website’s components and functionality would be understood by a wide range of users. To achieve this, simplistic but stylish components (banners, buttons, fonts) were used as they made the website visually appealing but also made it straightforward and easy to navigate through. By removing excess design elements that could potentially confuse users who have never used an interface similar to this, the interaction between users and the interface was kept efficient and effective. This allowed for the maximum satisfaction of the users. To accommodate users who are not a fan of a ‘loud’ colour scheme, the selected colour scheme has duller or paste colours to make the website more appealing and inviting. To accommodate users who have visual impairments, the font size was kept large and headers were stand out - dark text against light backgrounds or light text against dark backgrounds. This made it easy to read and easier to navigate and identify pages. The buttons and messages displayed when adding/deleting/editing words into the dictionary were kept stand out and obvious so that the user understood what was going on and what each button meant. These factors are highly significant as they allow users to use the interface to its fullest ability and get the most out of their learning - whether that be for students or teachers. 

CULTURAL: 
In regards to the cultural implications, this interface has gone to lengths to ensure that this dictionary is appropriate and respectful to Maori culture. It is crucial when representing other cultures to represent them with dignity and with correct information as we do not want to undermine the traditions and the language. For this reason, a lot of research has been done when incorporating Maori culture into the website. The name Te Kowhai Dictionary was chosen as it represents the nature and growth found in the country and kowhai are used as a symbol of personal growth and renewed sense of adventure (Reference: Pukaha). This relates to the dictionary as learning a new language or continuing your journey in one is about growth and learning. It relates to the sense of adventure as learning is an adventure that has challenges and new experiences; so Te Kowhai is a perfect name for the dictionary. I have also included some of the Te Reo into the website to make it more inviting and more traditional - without being offensive. This allows the users to feel comfortable in learning about a new culture and language as all the components that represent the cultural aspects have been brought to them appropriately and they all hold relevance. 

INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY; 
Intellectual property refers to the legal field in which a diverse range of information falls - including copyright, trademarks, icons, works of other artists, etc -but all this information has an exclusive right to information (Reference: Intellectual Property). For the Te Kowhai dictionary, there weren’t many uses of other people’s work or intellectual property but it was used for the banner and for the fa fas-icons. All of the fa-fas icons were used from a copyright-free website - Font Awesome - which contains a list of fa-fas-icons users can use for free (Some of the icons are not free and for pro-users but the ones that are free are copyright-free and available for free use). For the banner, the image of the kowhai was sourced from a copyright-free website - Flicker - and to attribute to using another artist’s work - with their permission - they were referenced in the website to ensure that the artist was recognised for their work. All the code that was sourced from other websites - that have been acknowledged during the documentation of this website and database. By doing this, we are recognising how important intellectual property is for the production of an interface as it removes the risk of copyright and plagiarism which would lead to negative consequences for illegal actions (violation of copyright laws). By acknowledging the work of others, the website shows integrity and respect to these artists and creators and it avoids an ethical online offence by avoiding violations of copyright and trademark laws. 

USABILITY:
Usability describes an interface's ability to accommodate the needs of the users in the most efficient and effective way that also allows for the user’s satisfaction (Reference: Usability). Te Kowhai Dictionary serves the users as it enables them to learn new Maori words in an easy and effective way allowing users to have a comfortable and easy interaction with the interface. This meant that whenever creating components within the website, the usability of all the components to ensure that they were easy for the users was taken into consideration. For example, to meet the Consistency and Standards heuristic, the navigation bar was placed at the very top of the website to ensure that (1) it is easy to view and find allowing users to have more control over what the interface is doing and (2) all users are familiar with the navigation bar being at the top of a page - by following conventions and keeping consistency, the users are not put in a stressful situation and they are able to focus on learning the words rather than learning how the website functions. Match between System and Real World is also applied in the fa fas-icons used in the navigation bar. By placing images next to the word that it relates to e.g. a little house next to home, the user will be able to decipher what each page is without having to read the headers. The common images that are used in all websites remove the need for extra thinking or confusion as the icons relate to their real-life purposes. The icons also allow the users to feel more familiar with the interface as it seems more intuitive rather than new.

Error Prevention was also found in the Te Kowhai Dictionary - on the Login Page. As the testing shows, when a user forgets to enter their username and/or password in a field, the interface tells them what is wrong by showing a message that says “Please enter…”. This allows the user to know what is wrong and it also tells the user how to solve the problem. When the user enters the wrong username and/or password, the interface informs them of this by taking them to another page (authenticate.php) and telling them that the password and/or username are incorrect. This prevents small frustrations as the user understands what exactly is going wrong. Lastly, the heuristic, Aesthetics and Minimalist Design were also used to make sure that the website was easy to use. By having a consistent colour scheme of only a few colours - colours that are soothing and light - the user did not feel overwhelmed when entering the interface. The components were also not overly complicated which prevented confusion. The soothing greens and yellows were useful as they make the user feel comfortable on the website while the dark font attracts their attention to important information, making the interaction as easy and direct as possible. The usability of the website is a highly important factor for a developer to take into consideration, as we wish for the best utilisation of the dictionary. By making the user’s experience easier and effective, we can accomplish this. 

fUNCTIONALITY: 
Functionality refers to the interface's capabilities, actions and usefulness (Reference: PCMAG Encyclopedia). Te Kowhai Dictionary has taken this into consideration when designing the layout and components of the website. For example, all of the pages for the website were kept minimalistic and simple to ensure easy navigation and easier identification of what each component could do. This is beneficial to the users as they now are not distracted by the extra clutter but rather focusing on the dictionary itself - this will maximise the user’s learning and use of the website. To ensure that the website functions as the user would expect it to, similar conventions to other websites were used and crucial elements such as the important button and the search bar stood out. The buttons in the Edit list Page were bright and eye-catching, drawing the user’s attention to the button and making it easier to understand its purpose. Each button also had its corresponding colours e.g. the delete button was red so that the user understood what to expect from it when it was clicked. To further improve functionality, the text boxes and drop downs in the Edit list Page have placeholders in them that tell the user what to expect and what input goes where. This simplifies the experience for users making the interface easy, effective and predictable. To add to the functionality of the website, all the texts and headers have been consistent with larger and ‘easy-to-read’ fonts that make it easier for users who have visual struggles. Therefore, functionality is an important implication as the function of a website should be designed to benefit the users and keep them keen on learning and utilising a resource like Te Kowhai Dictionary. Functionality also plays an important role in the minimalistic and directness of the website, to make the interaction easier for the users. 

AESTHETICS:
Aesthetics describe the visual components of the interface - mainly components like the colour scheme, layout, banner, icons, fonts and other elements that enhance the user's experience and make the interface pleasing to look at and still be able to meet its functionality. During the colour research stage, the green and creams complimented by the yellows stood out and it also inspired the name: “Te Kowhai”. The green symbolises the cleanliness and flourishing nature of New Zealand. The idea of flourishing can relate to a Te Reo dictionary as we are “flourishing in our learning”. The green colour scheme inspired by native New Zealand flora and fauna - ferns, korus, kawakawa, kowhai - is an elegant and aesthetically pleasing colour scheme as the greens soothe the user and make the interface more welcoming. For this, the background colour would be Timberwolf as it’s light and so buttons and fonts would stand out better. The font colour for the main headings would be Hunter Green with the main body font being Dark Green - they are both dark so the user can see them better. Fern Green can be used for the buttons and Sage can be used for stylistic elements such as header designs. The yellow is eye-catching and is able to break away from the greens which adds some professional style to the interface. The image obtained for the banner also follows the colour scheme and relates to the Te Kowhai motif throughout the website. The layout of the pages was minimalistic and straightforward which prevented unnecessary confusion for the users as well as not distracting them from the main purpose of the dictionary which is to learn the Maori language. 

The aesthetics of the website are crucial as they set the tone of the website - if a website is uninviting due to dark colour palettes or unique colour choices, users will be less likely to use and the branding of the website is negatively impacted. By creating a bright and positive outlook of the dictionary, users are able to get maximum utilisation of it, allowing for the website to fit its purpose.  
